---
title: 'My first experiences with ChatGPT and how it can aid Sitecore development'
date: '2022-12-06'
category:
  - 'OpenAI'
  - 'Sitecore'
  - 'ChatGPT'
  - 'Automation'
description: 'After all the fabulous tweets about ChatGPT I wanted to know how this worked and could aid Sitecore development'
img: ./images/openai.png
tags:
  - 'ChatGPT'
  - 'Sitecore'
  - 'OpenAI'
  - 'Generation'
---

The last few days, Twitter was crowded with tweets about ChatGPT, ChatGPT-3 and OpenAI. A revolutionary chatbot. It intrigued me when people were asking the bot for code snippets and the bot was, actually, giving answers that were usable. I got more interested after I found out that the ChatBot could actually [solve the different excersises for the advent of code 2022](https://note89.github.io/the-advent-of-code-ai-edition/). This blogposts learns what ChatGPT is and how it can aid SItecore development.

## What is ChatGPT?

The best way to answer is, to let the bot answer this question:

> what is ChatGPT?

And the answer:

> ChatGPT is a large language model trained by OpenAI. It is a variant of the GPT-3 model that is specifically designed to generate human-like text in response to user input, making it well-suited for use in chatbots and other conversational applications. ChatGPT has been trained on a massive amount of text data, giving it the ability to generate responses that are appropriate for a wide range of topics and contexts.

## how can it aid with Sitecore development?

As you might have read, this is not my first blogpost about ChatGPT. These are the two previous blogposts:

- ["Accelerate Your Sitecore Development Projects with ChatGPT](../accelerate-your-sitecore-development-projects-with-chatgpt)
- ["ChatGPT: The AI Tool That Can Write Sitecore MVC Renderings"](../chatgpt-the-ai-tool-that-can-write-sitecore-renderings/)

I have to admit: I didn't write them, but the chatbot did. That's right. It even generated the code for the Sitecore MVC renderings and converted that piece of code into ReactJS code.

## Inception

To me, it felt a bit of Inception. Let an AI write a blogpost for you, and even generate the code that is used inside it, while migrating it to another technology.

## My thoughts

To me, it feels we are at the verge of a new era, where a lot of code that we used to write, will be generated by an AI. This AI can do various things; create new code (_please write me a Sitecore MVC rendering which displays a news article, title, image and description_), or use this AI to convert existing code into another technology stack (_convert the Sitecore MVC rendering code to ReactJS_). This will, over time, not only reduce human errors, but also speed up regular tasks, or repetitive tasks, which were hard to automate in the past. I am definitely going to play more with this very, very powerful application and see how (and if) I can embed this into our daily tasks
